docs: Oracle Database Access (#23925)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/database-access/guides/oracle-self-hosted.mdx

---
title: Database Access with Oracle (Preview)
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Oracle.
---

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Database Access for Oracle Server is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["cloud", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="12.3"
>
  Database access for Oracle is available starting from Teleport `v12.3`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.
- Set up Teleport to access your self-hosted Oracle server 18c or later.
- Connect to your database through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

> ![Teleport Database Access Redis Self-Hosted](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted.png)

Reviewer: Should we mention somewhere this is an enterprise feature? What should we show here of `oss`?

nit: update `[Teleport Database Access Redis Self-Hosted]`

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Redis Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- Self-hosted Oracle server instance 18c or later.
- The `sqlcl` [Oracle client](https://www.oracle.com/pl/database/sqldeveloper/technologies/sqlcl/) installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable or any GUI client that supports JDBC
  Oracle thin client.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/5. Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

Install Teleport on the host where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the
address of your Teleport Proxy Service:

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \

>   --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \

Reviewer 2: Is there an equivalent flow with `teleport db configure` + `teleport start` that would work here?

We're trying to get away from `--auth-server=proxy.server.address.here`, as it's pretty confusing to newcomers.

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the
address of your Teleport Cloud tenant:

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
  --name=example-oracle \
  --protocol=oracle \
  --uri=oracle.example.com:2484 \
  --labels=env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See the [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx) for details.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 3/5. Create a certificate/key pair and create Teleport Oracle Server Wallet

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Follow the instructions below to generate TLS credentials for your database.

    ```code
    # Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generate certificate/key pair
    # for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.
    $ tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

> If [Orapki](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/dbseg/using-the-orapki-utility-to-manage-pki-elements.html#GUID-0F77F9B8-D425-4A0E-86FC-359D72DAD34F) Oracle tool was found in your local environment the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle --hostdb.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h` command will produce Oracle Wallet and

Reviewer 2: Is it `Oracle Wallet` or `Oracle wallet`? We seem to be inconsistent with our capitalization of wallet.

instructions how to configure Oracle TCPS listener with Teleport wallet. Otherwise the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle`  will produce `p12` certificate and instructions on how to create an Oracle Wallet on Oracle Server instance.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove these empty lines?

---
title: Database Access with Oracle (Preview)
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Oracle.
---

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">

>   Database Access for Oracle Server is currently in Preview mode.

Reviewer 3: I'm not really familiar with Oracle—is Oracle Server a separate product than Oracle? Is database access for Oracle generally available but for Oracle Server it's in preview?

Author: Yes that is misleading  It should refer to  Oracle database and there is not Oracle product called "Oracle Server". 
Updated.

</Admonition>

> <Details

Reviewer 3: Can we merge this `Details` box with the `Admonition` above it?

  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["cloud", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="12.3"
>
  Database access for Oracle is available starting from Teleport `v12.3`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.
- Set up Teleport to access your self-hosted Oracle server 18c or later.
- Connect to your database through Teleport.

<ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Self-hosted Oracle](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted.png)
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
![Teleport Database Access Oracle Cloud](../../../img/database-access/guides/oracle_selfhosted_cloud.png)
</ScopedBlock>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)
- Self-hosted Oracle server instance 18c or later.
- The `sqlcl` [Oracle client](https://www.oracle.com/pl/database/sqldeveloper/technologies/sqlcl/) installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable or any GUI client that supports JDBC
  Oracle thin client.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/5. Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

> Install Teleport on the host where you will run the Teleport Database Service:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to install Teleport on the host where you will run the Teleport Database Service.
```
To match the partial, which includes introductory text that doesn't really work with a colon in the preceding paragraph.

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

## Step 1/5. Start the Database Service

On the host where you will run the Teleport Database Service, start Teleport
with the appropriate configuration.

<Tabs>

> <TabItem label="With CLI flags">

Reviewer 3: Both of these options use `teleport start`. I think we should standardize on using systemctl if available. We have a partial for the systemctl instructions in `docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx`.

You can start the Teleport Database Service without configuration file using a
CLI command:

> <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

Reviewer 3: Instead of using `ScopedBlock`s here, I think we can use a `Var` component for the address. That should simplify the structure of the document a bit.

```code
$ teleport db start \
   --token=/tmp/token \
   --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
   --name=test \
   --protocol=oracle \
   --uri=oracle.example.com:2484 \
   --labels=env=dev
```

Note that the `--auth-server` flag must point to your Teleport Cloud tenant
address.

</ScopedBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Using a config file">

Generate a configuration file at `/etc/teleport.yaml` for the Database Service:

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

```code
$ teleport db configure create \
   -o file \
   --token=/tmp/token \
   --proxy=teleport.example.com:3080 \
   --name=test \
   --protocol=oracle \
   --uri=oracle.example.com:2484 \
   --labels=env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

```code
$ teleport db configure create \
   -o file \
   --token=/tmp/token \
   --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh:443 \
   --name=test \
   --protocol=oracle \
   --uri=oracle.example.com:2484 \
   --labels=env=dev
```

</ScopedBlock>

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Tip"
>
  A single Teleport process can run multiple different services, for example
  multiple Database Service agents as well as the SSH Service or Application
  Service.

</Admonition>

> Start the database service:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Start the Database Service:
```
Teleport service names are proper nouns

```code
$ teleport start --config=/path/to/teleport-db.yaml --token=/tmp/token
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> <Admonition type="tip">

Reviewer 3: To match our style guide, let's put the text of this tip in the Next Steps section instead. At the same time, it might make sense to recommend using a configuration file for all users so it's easier to set up a systemd service.

  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See the [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx) for details.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

> ## Step 3/5. Create a certificate/key pair and create Teleport Oracle Server Wallet

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 3/5. Create a certificate/key pair and Teleport Oracle Wallet
```
- Tightening this up a bit
- It looks like the Oracle docs say "Oracle Wallet" instead of "Oracle Server Wallet", but feel free to disregard if "Oracle Server Wallet" is correct.

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Follow the instructions below to generate TLS credentials for your database.

    ```code
    # Export Teleport's certificate authority and a generate certificate/key pair
    # for host db.example.com with a 1-year validity period.
    $ tctl auth sign --format=oracle --host=db.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

> If [Orapki](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/dbseg/using-the-orapki-utility-to-manage-pki-elements.html#GUID-0F77F9B8-D425-4A0E-86FC-359D72DAD34F) Oracle tool was found in your local environment the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle --hostdb.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h` command will produce Oracle Wallet and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `tctl` finds the Orapki tool in your local environment, the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle --hostdb.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h` command will produce an Oracle Wallet and
```
Assuming this is correct. We don't need the link here, and I think it makes this sentence clearer to use the active voice.

> instructions how to configure Oracle TCPS listener with Teleport Oracle Wallet. Otherwise the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle`  will produce `p12` certificate and instructions on how to create an Oracle Wallet on Oracle Server instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
instructions how to configure the Oracle TCPS listener with Teleport Oracle Wallet. Otherwise the `tctl auth sign --format=oracle` command  will produce a `p12` certificate and instructions on how to create an Oracle Wallet on your Oracle Server instance.
```

## Step 4/5. Configure Oracle Server

> In order to enable Teleport Oracle integration you will need to configure the TCPS Oracle listener and use the Teleport Oracle Wallet created in the previous step

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to enable the Teleport Oracle integration you will need to configure the TCPS Oracle listener and use the Teleport Oracle Wallet created in the previous step.
```

> Align your `listener.ora` Oracle configuration file and add the following entries:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Align your `listener.ora` Oracle configuration file and add the following entries:

```

> ```

Reviewer 3: Is there a syntax highlighting label we can use here?

Author: Unfortunately  no. Oracle uses custom configuration syntax.

LISTENER =
  (DESCRIPTION_LIST =
    (DESCRIPTION =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCPS)(HOST = 0.0.0.0)(PORT = 2484))
    )
  )

WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
```

> Additionally, you will need to extend your `sqlnet.ora` Oracle configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, you will need to extend your `sqlnet.ora` Oracle configuration:

```

> ```

Reviewer 3: Same here re: syntax highlighting

Author: same as https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/23925#discussion_r1157311458
Oracle uses own syntax.

WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE)(METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = /path/to/oracleWalletDir)))
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = TRUE
SQLNET.AUTHENTICATION_SERVICES = (TCPS)
```

> You can find learn more about  `sqlnet.ora` and `listener.ora` configuration from the [Parameters for the sqlnet.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/parameters-for-the-sqlnet-ora-file.html#GUID-28040885-6832-4FFC-9258-0EF19FE9A3AC) and [Oracle Net Listener Parameters in the listener.ora File](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netrf/Oracle-Net-Listener-parameters-in-listener-ora-file.html#GUID-F9FA0DF5-2FAF-45CA-B6A1-F0166C7BFE54) Oracle documentation.

Reviewer 3: I think we should put this in the "Next steps" section since it's not directly relevant to completing the instructions in this guide.

Author: I think that in same cases this will be useful. For example a custom have a custom Oracle configuration and need to merge the settings but agree this is not related to any instruction step. 

I have move this to `<Admonition type="tip">`

Reviewer 3: As the `Admonition` exists in the guide right now, I'm not sure why we would include links to this information instead of other technical topics. 

If we want the reader to follow these links in order to do something specific, I think we should be explicit about what that is.

Additionally, your Oracle database user accounts must be configured to require a valid client certificate. If you're creating a new user:

> ```sql

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```sql
```

CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED EXTERNALLY AS 'CN=alice';
GRANT CREATE SESSION TO alice;
```

## Step 5/5. Connect

Once the Database Service has joined the cluster, log in to see the available
databases:

> <ScopedBlock scope={["enterprise"]}>

Reviewer 3: As above, if we use the `Var` component for the address of the Proxy Service, we don't need to use a `ScopedBlock`.

  ```code
  $ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=testuser
  $ tsh db ls
  # Name   Description Allowed Users Labels  Connect
  # ------ ----------- ------------- ------- -------
  # oracle             [*]           env=dev
  ```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  ```code
  $ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=testuser
  $ tsh db ls
  # Name   Description Allowed Users Labels  Connect
  # ------ ----------- ------------- ------- -------
  # oracle             [*]           env=dev
  ```

</ScopedBlock>

To connect to the Oracle `XE` Oracle SID/SERVICE_NAME:

> ```code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```code
```
